There are two theories that have often been used to explain ancient and modern tragedy. Neither 
quite explains the complexity of the tragic process or the tragic hero, but each explains important 
elements of tragedy, and, because their conclusions are contradictory, they represent extreme 
views.

and of the limitation of human effort. But this theory of tragedy is an oversimplification, primarily 
because it confuses the tragic condition with the tragic process: the theory does not acknowledge 
that fate, in a tragedy, normally becomes external to the hero only after the tragic process has as a 
heroism that creates the splendor and exhilaration that is unique to tragedy. The tragic hero quality 
of an honest person, but the external antagonist of the criminal. Secondarily, this theory of tragedy 
does not distinguish tragedy from irony. Irony does not need an exceptional central figure: the 
original destiny never quite fades out of the tragedy.
as a rule, the more ignoble the hero the sharper the irony, when irony alone is the objective. It is
heroism that creates the splendor and exhilaration that is unique to tragedy. The tragic hero 
normally has an extraordinary, often a nearly divine, destiny almost within grasp, and the glory of 
the original destiny never quite fades out of the tragedy.

The second theory of tragedy states that the act that sets the tragic process in motion must be 
primarily a violation of normal law, whether human or divine; in short, that the tragic hero must have
a flaw that has an essential connection with sin. Again it is true that the great majority of tragic 
heroes do possess hubris, or a proud and passionate mind that seems to make the hero’s downfall 
morally explicable. But such hubris is only the precipitating agent of catastrophe, just as in comedy 
the cause )f the happy ending is usually some act of humility often performed by a noble character 
who is meanly disguised.

This theory of tragedy as morally explicable runs into the question of whether an innocent sufferer 
in a tragedy, such as Iphigenia, or Socrates in Plato Apology, is a tragic figure. They are, of course, 
even though it is not very easy to find crucial moral flaws in them. Cordelia shows sincerity and high
spirit in refusing to flatter her faber, and Cordelia is 30 hanged. Tragedy, in short, is ambiguous 
and cannot be reduced to the opposition between human effort. and external fate, just as it cannot 
be reduced to the opposition between good and evil.